[[!meta title="Joining the OCF"]]
# Becoming an OCF member

## Before you begin

* Check the [[membership eligibility|eligibility]] page to make sure you are eligible for an OCF account. For example, all currently enrolled students and OSL-registered groups are eligible.

* OCF accounts do not expire, so make sure you have not made an account in the past. If you have forgotten your account name or password, please do not request a new account. Instead, reset your [[password|services/shell-account/passwords/]].

* Choose an OCF account name that is based on your real name (for individual accounts) or your group's name (for group accounts). It is unlikely you will be able to change your account name after your request has been processed.

## Individual accounts

* Individual accounts are associated with a single person and may not be shared.

* Individual accounts are not eligible for [[virtual hosting|services/vhost]].

### Process

1. **[[Request an account online|https://secure.ocf.berkeley.edu/account_tools/request_account]].**

  You will be prompted to log in with CalNet. Then follow the instructions to make your request. Your account name must be based on your real name.

  Feel free to [[contact us|contact]] if you experience difficulties in the request or you have questions.

1. **Await account creation.** (see below)

## Group accounts

* Group accounts are associated with a group may be shared by members of the group.

* Group accounts are eligible for [[virtual hosting|services/vhost]].

### Process

1. **Prepare appropriate documents and identification.**

  See the [[membership eligibility|eligibility]] page for information on the documents and identification you will be asked to present for verification at the time you submit your account form.

1. **Complete an account request form.**

  Print out the [[group account form|http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/services/gaf.pdf]] or pick up a copy at the [[services/lab]], and fill it out.

1. **Submit your account form.**

  Give your account form to a staff member during [[staff hours|http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/cgi-bin/staff_hours.cgi]]. The person requesting the account must bring sufficient documentation as listed on the [[membership eligibility|eligibility]] page.

1. **Await account creation.** (see below)

## Waiting for account creation

Account creation consists of "approve" and "create. "Approve" is when we record your request for an account, which uses CalNet for individual accounts. "Create", on the other hand, is done manually in batches by a Site Manager, usually every 1-2 weeks. You will receive an email when your account is created.

If you have not received an email notification after one week, try logging in to our computer system.

If there are issues when processing your account, you will be contacted by email.
