[[!meta title="Passwords"]]
# Account Passwords

Your account password protects your access to most OCF [[services|services]]. If you have enabled database access for your account, access to your database is protected by a separate password.

When contacting staff, **DO NOT** send your password over email, as your account will have to be disabled. OCF staff members do not need to know and will never ask for your password.

# Resetting Your Password

##1. Via the Web Interface (For Individual Accounts Only)

An easy way to reset your password is by logging in with CalNet and following the prompts at <https://secure.ocf.berkeley.edu/account_tools/change_password>.

##2. In Person

If you are not able to use the web interface, feel free to meet a staff member in person for assistance. See the [[staff hours|http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/cgi-bin/staff_hours.cgi]] page for when staff is available. For verification, please bring your Cal ID or an acceptable form of ID listed on the [[account eligibility|http://docs.ocf.berkeley.edu/wiki/Account_eligibility]] page.

You can also contact us at [staff@ocf.berkeley.edu](mailto:staff@ocf.berkeley.edu) if you have questions or to set up an appointment.

### For Group Accounts

To reset the password for a group account, you must additionally prove that you are authorized to reset the account password. The person requesting the password reset must be a group signatory or bring a signed letter from a group signatory authorizing the person to reset the account password. Acceptable forms of verification for group signatories include:

* [[Public listing|http://students.berkeley.edu/osl/studentgroups/public/index.asp]] as a group signatory
* Logging in at the [[Student Signatory Login Screen|https://students.berkeley.edu/osl/studentgroups/signatories/index.asp?todo=groupstatus]]

##3. Via Postal Mail

If you are unable to meet a staff member in person, you may reset your password through postal mail. For security purposes, please include the following with your request:

* a **notarized** copy of your Cal ID
* a second piece of supporting ID
* a signed statement to the effect of: "I, John Doe, authorize Open Computing Facility staff to reset my password. Enclosed is a copy of my ID."
* a requested new **temporary** password, which should be 8 or more characters long, not based on dictionary words, and include at least one character from each of the following character classes:
  * lowercase letters
  * uppercase letters
  * numbers
  * other symbols (eg. [], {}, !, @, #, $, %, ^, &, *, ())
* contact information so that we can notify you when your password reset has been processed

If you no longer have your Cal ID, you may substitute it with a government-issued ID.

Mail your request to our [[mailing address|contact/#index4h2]].

Once your password is reset, we strongly encourage you to log in and **change it again yourself immediately**, so that you can be sure that no one else knows your password.

# Compromised Passwords

If the OCF believes that your account password has been compromised or that someone unauthorized has accessed your account, we will disable your account immediately.

To reactivate your account, you will need to see a root staff member or site manager. See the [[staff hours|http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/cgi-bin/staff_hours.cgi]] page for when they are available.
