[[!meta title="Account"]]
# OCF account

[[!toc levels=3 startlevel=2]]

## Introduction

Your OCF account is both proof of your [[membership]] and the means by which you authenticate to the variety of [[services]] operated by OCF [[staff]]. Your OCF account is independent from CalNet. (Technical info: public account information and salted password hashes are stored in [[staff/backend/LDAP]] and [[staff/backend/Kerberos]] databases, respectively.)

Accounts are not normally deactivated after your membership [[membership/eligibility]] expires (e.g., graduation). In fact, we have active accounts dating back to at least 1995. However, this policy may change in the future: as a student organization, it wouldn't be fair on our successors to make a long-term commitment.

## Passwords

OCF staff members **do not need to know your password**. In fact, we can't "look it up" either since we don't store your password directly but rather a salted [cryptographic hash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function).

Email is generally insecure, so please **do not send passwords over email** (especially not to OCF staff).

### Changing your password

#### Using CalNet

For individual accounts, you can [find your username or reset your password online](https://accounts.ocf.berkeley.edu/change-password) using CalNet (assuming you have CalNet access).

#### Over SSH

You can change your password over SSH if you know your current password.

Use [[SSH|shell]] to run the command `passwd` and follow the prompts as shown below. No text will appear when you are entering in a password, just press enter when done after each prompt.

    $ passwd 
    myusername@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: <my current password>
    New password: <my new password>
    Verifying - New password: <my new password>
    Success : Password changed

#### In person

If you are not able to use CalNet or SSH (for example, if you are a group and forgot your current password), you can meet a staff member in person during [staff hours](https://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/staff_hours).

Please bring sufficient documentation as listed on the [[membership eligibility|membership/eligibility]] page to demonstrate that you are authorized to reset the account password.

#### By postal mail

If you have forgotten your individual account password and are unable to use CalNet or meet a staff member in person, you may reset your password through postal mail. For security purposes, please include the following with your request:

* a copy of your Cal ID

* a second piece of supporting ID

* a signed statement to the effect of:
> I, John Doe, authorize Open Computing Facility staff to reset my password. Enclosed is a copy of my ID.
* a requested new **temporary** password, which should be 8 or more characters long, not based on dictionary words, and include at least one character from each of the following character classes:
  * lowercase letters
  * uppercase letters
  * numbers
  * other symbols (e.g. [], {}, !, @, #, $, %, ^, &, *, ())

* contact information so that we can notify you when your password reset has been processed

If you no longer have your Cal ID, you may substitute it with a government-issued ID.

Mail your request to our [[mailing address|contact/#index6h2]].

Once your password is reset, we strongly encourage you to change it over SSH (see above), so that you can be sure that no one else knows your password.

### MySQL

Access to your [[MySQL database|services/mysql]], if you have one, is protected by a separate password.

## After graduation

Currently, we don't actively disable accounts, so you are free to use your account until that policy changes. We can't promise all of your OCF account privileges into perpetuity, however.  We are run by students volunteers using student money. 

## Disabled accounts

Some common reasons accounts are disabled:

 * by request
 * security (e.g., account hijacked)
 * misuse (e.g., excessive use of resources, violation of University policies) 

Accounts may also be disabled if OCF staff need to contact you but cannot do so.

To re-enable your account, you will need to see a Manager (gm, sm, or dm after the staff member's name) during [staff hours](https://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/staff_hours).

If you want to disable your OCF account, please [[contact us|contact]] and provide your OCF username. If your account appears to still be active, we may ask for some evidence that you are the account owner. Currently, disabled accounts are stored or archived and can be *re-enabled* by request at a later date. Disabled accounts may eventually be scheduled for deletion.

To permanently delete the contents of your account, you will need to have access to your account.
