[[!meta title="MySQL"]]
# Introduction
The OCF provides each user with a MySQL database. We currently use the most recent version of the Debian package mysql-server-5.1. See the following sections for information about performing common MySQL tasks, and our rules and policies regarding MySQL.
## Policies
We limit users to 1 database, and this database has the same name as your username.

As a user of shared database server we ask you to respect the community and refrain from any activities that will hurt the quality of service for other users. We understand this policy is vague, so our suggested maximum size for databases is 1GB, and for individual tables 256 MB. Storing large amounts of data is not a problem unless the server has to perform complex queries on this data.

## Creating a MySQL database
We have two options to create a database using the terminal or our web management tool.
### Web-based tool
Go to the website https://secure.ocf.berkeley.edu/account_tools/commands, and type in your username and password. Select the option: makemysql — reset your MySQL database password, or create a new MySQL database (copy down the password somewhere SECURE), and run the command. Note your password in a safe place.
### SSH Terminal
Log into the OCF via [[SSH]], at the terminal prompt enter the command makemysql. Hit yes to confirm the operation. Note your password in a safe place.

## Reset Password
To reset a MySQL password simply follow the directions above for creating a MySQL database. This program WILL NOT DELETE an existing database.

## Accessing MySQL
Assuming your database is set up, in order to access it (or allow a web application to access it), you will need 4 pieces of information:

*Database Host: '''<tt>mysql</tt>'''
*Database Name: '''<tt><your OCF username></tt>'''
*Database User: '''<tt><your OCF username></tt>'''
*Database password: '''<tt><your database password></tt>'''

'''Note:''' Your database password is not the same as your OCF account password. It is a randomly generated password that was created when your database was created. If you don't know what your database password is but know your database is set up, please follow [[#Changing or resetting your database password|these instructions]] to reset your password.


To use your OCF MySQL database with a web application, enter the above information during the application's installation process.


To connect to the OCF's MySQL server using the MySQL client on an OCF machine, simply run the command

  mysql

This command will prompt you for your MySQL database password.



 


