DEPRECATED

#Windows Server 2008 R2

##~~PXE Booting~~

##====Install Vanilla Windows===
* Prerequisites:
	- properly configured DHCP
	- Windows Deployment Services with a working copy of Windows
* To Install:
	1. PXE boot computer, should connect to tornado.o.b.e
	2. A Windows installation screen should come up, click next
		and type in credentials. Be sure to format your username
		as "lab\<username>"
	3. Choose the drive to install it on, make sure to format the
		entire drive/partition before installing Windows onto
		that drive. Click next.
	4. Installer should start... wait a few minutes. Setup will restart
		the computer, don't press anything!!! Wait a few more minutes...
		Setup will install devices, restart, then comes configuring!
* Configuring:
	1. It will ask for a username, use "localuser"
	2. It will ask for a password, ask a root staffer **hint hint** 
		(if you're not one...though you should be if you're 
		installing windows...)
	3. For the password hint, type in "lab password", click next
	4. agree to the Software License Terms, click next
	5. Use Recommended Settings for Wndows Update, click next
	6. Time Zone is Pacific (US and Canada), click next
	7. ...and you're done!!
* After Installation
	1. log onto the machine using localuser
		* You'll have to log in using the local machine's domain.  To
			find out what it is, click the "how do I log into
			another domain" and it should say how to do so in there.
	2. Allow logging in as administrator
		* Control Panel->User Accounts->User Accounts->Manage User Accounts
		* Right-click Administrator->set password, read the box,
		if you understand, click proceed
		* For the new password, ask root staff **hint hint**
		* Click OK, Click OK
		* Right-click Administrator->properties
		* under General tab, uncheck "Account is disabled"
		* Click OK, you're done!
	3. Install Office
		* Insert Disc, run setup.exe, click install now, wait... done
		* Don't worry about activation, we'll do that later.
	4. Restart the Computer
		* login as administrator
	5. Change the Computer Name to match the sticker on the computer case
		* right click computer in start menu->properties->Advanced
		System Settings
		* go to Computer Name tab, click change next to "To rename..."
		* under "Computer name:" type in the new name, click okay,
		type in credentials, click okay, click clse, restart now.
	6. Log in as guser, you should see firefox, OCF file storage (winscp),
		and putty on the desktop
	7. Disable sound
		* disable sound by LEFT-clicking the volume icon in the lower
		right corner and clicking the speaker icon, you should see
		a red circle over the speaker icon.
	8. Activate Windows 7 and Office
		* log onto tornado.o.b.e
		* open Volume Access Management Tool
		*
	9. Install the Printers
		* Download and install the Adobe Postscript Driver (google it)
		You'll have to install it under administrator and use 
		compatibility mode (Windows XP SP2). A Green background
		installer should appear, just click next until you get out.
		* Go to Devices and Printers in the Start menu, right click
		and add a printer. Choose to install a network printer and
		it will begin looking for printers on the network - it won't
		find any.  Just click, printers I've listed aren't here. The
		address of the printer should be:
		  > http://printhost.ocf.berkeley.edu:631/classes/[double|single]
		
			Install it as any driver you want. When its done, right click
		on the printer and go to printer properties. Go to the Advanced
		Tab and under Driver, change it to AdobePSGenericPosScriptPrinter.
		Make sure you do this for both single and double.

	
