# chpass

[[!toc levels=3 startlevel=2]]

## Introduction

Changes a user's kerberos principal password along with his windows (AKA active directory or lab) password.

## Usage

    ~$ chpass andromeda
Changes user andromeda's password

## Sample Use Case

You can run chpass on any device that mounts /opt/ocf

    raphtown@pileup:~$ chpass andromeda
    OCF Change Password Program
    
    WARNING: If you are resetting/changing a password for an OCF staff member,
    you acknowledge that you may potentially modify some of the privileges that the staff 
    member may have.
    
    Changing password for: andromeda:*:1615:20:Andromeda Centauri,The OCF,,:/home/a/an/andromeda:/opt/ocf/bin/sorry
Let the user type in his new password (and verify it).  Requirements are for passwords to be at least 8 characters long.  It is helpful to indicate that nothing will show up when the user starts typing.

    Enter New Password: 
    Verify password: 
    Connecting to kerberos.ocf.berkeley.edu...
Now type in your kerberos root principal password.  If you don't have one you can't change passwords!

    Please enter the password for principal raphtown/root: 
    andromeda@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: 
    Verifying - andromeda@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: 
    raphtown/root@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: 
    Successfully changed heimdal kerberos principal
At this point you have changed the user's kerberos principal password.  We now move on to changing the lab password.  Enter your lab password and you are done.

    Connecting to biohazard.ocf.berkeley.edu...
    Enter LAB\raphtown Password: 
    
    PASSWORD SUCCESSFULLY CHANGED!
