[[!meta title="Bylaws of the Open Computing Facility"]]

# Bylaws of the Open Computing Facility

This is the official **Bylaws of the Open Computing Facility**, as last amended at the general meeting of March 21, 2008.

1. The General Manager and the Site Managers cannot appoint directors unless: (a) the OCF is not formally in session, and (b) the Board of Directors cannot achieve quorum because there are fewer than five directors in town.

1. The OCF Board of Directors shall meet at least once every two weeks while the OCF is formally in session.

1. Any Director appointed to the Board by the Decision Making Process missing two consecutive regularly scheduled meetings will be removed from the Board, regardless of whether the meetings achieve quorum.

1. OCF Board meetings must be announced to all Directors at least twenty-four hours in advance.

1. Resolutions by the Board of Directors can be put to a vote electronically. When putting a resolution to the Board in this manner, all Board members must be included in the request for votes. To pass an issue this way, at least half of all the Board members must agree. If the motion fails to achieve a majority within seventy-two hours of being called to such a vote, the motion fails. The results of the vote will be posted in roll call form.

1. Attendance lists and minutes for all OCF meetings shall be maintained for the decisions of that meeting to be valid.

1. BoD elections will take effect at 12:00 midnight after the conclusion of the meeting at which the election took place, with the exception of an Election Meeting.

Bylaws 1-4 amended at the general meeting of March 21, 2008. Bylaws 5-7 from the revision of the bylaws last amended February 7, 1995.
