[[!meta title="approve (approve an OCF account)"]]
#approve (approve an OCF account)

##Introduction
This script approves an account for later creation. Right now the preferred way is to direct users to approve their accounts online (ultimately this hooks into the same script). For some classes of users, online approve may not work (groups, visiting students, etc.). Use judgment when approving an account.

##Usage/example
<pre>
sanjayk[OCF]/opt/ocf/bin/approve
Linux supernova 2.6.32-5-amd64 #1 SMP Sun May 6 04:00:17 UTC 2012 x86_64

The programs included with the Debian GNU/Linux system are free software;
the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

Debian GNU/Linux comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent
permitted by applicable law.
Last login: Sun Sep 30 11:05:29 2012 from death.ocf.berkeley.edu
OCF Account Approval Program
--------------------------
Creating Lock file nobody else can use approve until you are complete
approve is getting the runtime data of the program...Locked and Loaded
--------------------------
Is this an (i)ndividual or (g)roup account? i
Real name: Testing Test
University ID#: 12345
Requested account name: testerw
Enter your email address: test@ocf.berkeley.edu
  Enter again to confirm: test@ocf.berkeley.edu
Your OCF account includes an @OCF.Berkeley.EDU email address; would you like
mail sent there to be forwarded to your personal email address? (y/n): y
Choose a password (nothing will appear as you type): 
Enter again to verify: 
Your account has been approved!
Removing lock file, people can use approve again
Connection to supernova.ocf.berkeley.edu closed.
</pre>


##Work-flow for OSL student group approvals
The vast majority of approvals will be for <em>OSL</em> student groups here is the work-flow for those approvals. Note staff need to use judgment for non-OSL groups.

### Prerequisites
* Person requesting the approval is a signatory of the group (confirm with signat, or ask them to log in to the website: http://campuslife.berkeley.edu/orgs)
* Group has filled out an account form
* Group does not have an existing account (check with checkaccount)

### Approval
- Type in the group's FULL name in Group Name
- Type in the desired account name (explain that this is not necessarily mean they will get xyz.berkeley.edu)
- Type in the name of the student approving the account, their ID, and email address

### Post approval
Explain that that account will take 1-2 weeks to create and they will need to apply for virtual hosting after their site is ready. Point them to relevant wiki articles.
